Is it easy to get a 55%+ score in TCS ILP explore 1 sem1 and 2 proctored assessment for a NON-CSE/IT student?
That's quite a good question and congrats you are one step near to success. 
I'm a guy from CSE background and I was able to achieve 80%+ score with almost no preparation(Except I referred Wikipedia for Know your TCS).

Coming to a guy from non-CS/IT background, before test you have Xplore program. 
Just a quite glace into that can help you answer almost all the MCQs. 
Coming to the coding part, here you have two questions- one easy and one medium level.

Easy question is almost given from your academics or some most common question you find on Google and it needs only one logic to generate output.

Second question has two logics(ex. Sorting and searching together, applying complex concepts like array of objects etc.) 
For this to clear all you need have is basic knowledge and syntax and good logic writing skills.










I recently appeared for TCS Xplore IPA and scored 97%, here's the mail you get on scoring that.

I would say it's very easy to score 80+, but luck factor is involved, 
I only got 51% in my first attempt but that was with 0 preparation and bad luck as I couldn't even complete both coding questions, 
which is due to their bad interface and unfamiliarity with the type of question asked, 
so, first attempt gave me a good Idea as to what I should focus on in second attempt.

that's one reason why I was able to score 47/50 in second attempt, but scoring atleast 30 should be easy anyways.

What you really have to focus on is the coding section, there will be a 15 mark basic question and a 35 mark basic but lengthy question, 
getting a full 50 in coding section is only way you could possibly ensure 80+ score, and that's not hard.

Let's assume you can do 15 mark question like any other normal person, 
now you've to make sure you solve the 35 mark question as well, what's hard in this section is completing it within time limit, 
which is more than enough, I will give you a useful trick that the guy sitting besides me gave before the test, do the coding section first, 
worst that could happen is you don't have any time left for MCQ, 
but you could even randomly mark MCQ in last 60 seconds and get atleast half correct, 
coding question guarantees 50 marks so that should be priority.

Now that you're at the 35 mark coding question, you have to divide the lengthy problem statement, 
biggest mistake you could do is write code directly as the problem statement says, 
this is bad as it tells you to write classes before you know what your data is, 
you'll end up writing entire program and when you run it you'll have so many bugs you won't be able to fix in within time limit, 
the trick is to jump to the example section directly, read input first, store it temporarily in some array or object and print it.

This is another trick, TCS editor does not allow you to see output, but it shows you error, 
you can use this to print anything, just throw exception wrapping what you want to print.

Now that you've read input and seen that it's working fine, you've finished half the work, 
now if any bug happens you know it's somewhere in classes you wrote.

Now build classes as mentioned from top, and keep debugging after every few lines of code, 
better fix bugs while writing so you know where issue is.

Now the hard part is understanding what the problem statement says, it can be very obscure and understanding can be tough, 
that's also luck based if your problem statement is bad but you can do it with enough effort.

So you're done with both coding questions and 50 marks are guaranteed, 
so just 30 more marks, shouldn't be hard, you know?

Fun fact, i completed entire test in 1 hour.



https://www.guvi.in/blog/top-tcs-ipa-exam-questions-and-tips-to-crack-tcs/

insider
https://leetcode.com/discuss/interview-question/5454333/How-to-score-80%2B-in-IPA-exam-or-TCS-or-Xplore